Contents of the "WinCE" subdirectory for UnZip 5.52 and later:

   Contents     This file.
   README       Information about the Windows CE port and its author.
   punzip.h     Main header file for the entire Pocket UnZip project.
   wcecfg.h     Common system-specific configurations for Windows CE port code.
   wcemain.c    Main entry code for Win CE command line tool.
   winmain.cpp  Contains the entire user interface and all Windows code.
   winmain.h    Header for winmain.cpp.
   intrface.cpp The interface between the Windows code and Info-ZIP code.
   intrface.h   Header for intrface.cpp.
   wince.cpp    All the Win32 APIs and C runtimes called by Info-ZIP.
   wince.h      Header for wince.cpp.
   punzip.rc    Resource file for all dialogs, bitmaps, menus, icons, etc.
   resource.h   Resource header file for punzip.rc and other source modules.
   punzip.htp   Windows CE help file (rename to punzip.html for WinNT).
   punzip.rcv   Version resource and version defines.
   punzip.ic2   Windows CE app icons (16x16 and 32x32, both 2 bits/pixel).
   punzip.ico   Windows NT application icons (16x16 and 32x32, 16 bits/pixel).
   zipfile.ic2  Windows CE zip icons (16x16 and 32x32, both 2 bits/pixel).
   zipfile.ico  Windows NT zip file icons (16x16 and 32x32, 16 bits/pixel).
   imglist.2bp  Windows CE image list bitmap (2 bits/pixel).
   imglist.bmp  Windows NT image list bitmap (16 bits/pixel including mask).
   ilmask.bmp   Windows CE image list mask bitmap (1 bit/pixel).
   toolbar.2bp  Windows CE toolbar bitmap (2 bits/pixel).
   toolbar.bmp  Windows NT toolbar bitmap (16 bits/pixel).
   inc\         Contains dummy headers that are called by Info-ZIP code.
   vc5\
     punzip.dsp   Visual C++ 5.0 project for WinCE (SH3 and MIPS) and WinNT.
   vc6\
     punzip.dsp   Visual C++ 6.0 project for WinCE (SH3 and MIPS) and WinNT.
   vcEMbed3\
     punzip.vcp   Visual C++ Embedded Tools 3.0 project for pUnZip (WinCE).
     unzipcmd.vcp Visual C++ Embedded Tools 3.0 project for WinCE cmdline tool.
     unzipwce.vcw Visual C++ Embedded Tools 3.0 workspace for all WinCE tools.

Please note that Info-ZIP's source distribution for UnZip contains all text
files in UNIX format (LF line terminators). But the Microsoft tools require
some of the sources and project files to be supplied in MSDOS format (CR-LF
line terminators). You have to apply UnZip's "-a" option (or use some third-
party line termination converter) to get the UnZip sources unpacked in the
correct file format.
